#Solace, the Disaster Relief System, in development
A project done for Microsoft code.fun.do++ 2018 by Arshdeep Kainth, K. Hari Madhavan and Parshad Sabara of Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur.

  Solace is the placeholder name of our team's Disaster Relief System. Through Solace, we intend to alleviate the various problems that are associated with the disaster and post-disaster phase.
  <ul>
  <li><p>Warning system:</p> 
      <p>Pre Disaster, Solace will follow news sources in order to check for abnormal weather events, or possible disastersin order to warn the user of impending disaster. Notifications can alos be set to come from governemntal bodies.</p></li>
    <li><p>Communication during and after disasters:</p>
        <p>One of the most crucial elements to ensure minimum damage and quick recovery is to maintain proper lines of communication, even during the disaster. Through Solace, we intend to keep communication between people open. This plays an important role as it helps people to stay aware of what is happening outside of their immediate surroundings, and houses, but also plays a psychological role by connecting people who would otherwise have been isolated. we mean to implement this by using the app to commence mesh networks between devices through Bluetooth. We have chosen Bluetooth, as it is a  very commonly used protocol, which is found in most devices, and is likely to work even when other networks are down. Communications will be mostly text-based, either between two users or as a group chat. However Bluetooth does have a short range, and thus can be used only at a local level, and will need extenders and central nodes/users, which may need aid from other parties, like government bodies, or resident associations. Thus, this aspect of Solace acts more or less like a minimal social network.</p></li>  
  <li><p>Survey and Status Knowledge System:</p> 
      <p>During the disaster, surveys will be generated by Solace and sent to the users. These surveys recored the location using GPS, which would work even during most disasters, and ask for details of the users, such as injuries, things that users might need, such as food, medicines, or any other essential item, or what ever they are ready to offer. These are uploaded onto the map and the local group, thus making it easier to know how people can help each other, and reducing the confusion involved. Professional NGOs and governmental bodies can also get involved, making this process even more organised.</p></li>
  <li><p>Mapping system:</p> 
      <p>Solace will primarily work on the map of the area. Notifications and alerts are pinpointed on the map through their locations. The map will operate on separate layers of data such as : disaster incidents, resource request or donation, which can be obtained from the above mentioned surveys. It can also mark disease outbreaks in order to control them, and mark sites of important emergency places, like hospitals, police and fire staions, amongst others.</p></li>
  </ul>
  

